Confidential Document, Isha Upa Yoga Presentation Notes - Version 11, Jan 2024
Isha Upa Yoga Session
Yoga Padhi: Play Yoga Padhi music 32 minutes before the start of the session and end 2 minutes
before welcome.
Welcome: (Promptly at program start time. Gesture Namaskar if audience can understand the
gesture, else not necessary)
Welcome to all of you. We will allow a few minutes for everyone to arrive. While we are waiting,
please make sure your cell phones are switched off or in silent mode. We will begin shortly.
(Wait a few additional minutes for others to arrive and settle).
Good Morning/Afternoon/Evening and welcome.
My name is (name) and I’m a volunteer with Isha Foundation, an international nonprofit organization
dedicated to cultivating human well-being and founded by Sadhguru, yogi, mystic and visionary. Isha
Foundation has been offering tools for wellbeing from the yogic sciences to people from all walks of
life with the support of over 17 million volunteers worldwide. We would like to present a short video
introducing the work of Sadhguru and Isha Foundation in the last four decades.
**Play “Introduction to Isha and Sadhguru” video ~ 3 mins
(Play video and sit by the audio control, oriented towards the screen to watch the video and also see
the audience)
Today it is my privilege to present to you simple but powerful yogic practices designed by Sadhguru.
Introduction to Upa Yoga:
You will be learning a set of practices called Upa Yoga, which literally means ‘sub-yoga’.
● Upa Yoga practices are simple and safe processes.
● You can do Upa Yoga anytime and anywhere.
These practices are simple but you may find some of them to be challenging at first.
● This is ok. Don’t get discouraged.
● The body works better with use. The beautiful thing about the body is that the more you use
it, the better it works. The more you practice, the more effortless it will become and the more
benefits you will gain.
Confidential Document, Isha Upa Yoga Presentation Notes - Version 11, Jan 2024
Do not worry about remembering the instructions. All the practices are available on Sadhguru’s
YouTube Channel or can be accessed on your phone via Sadhguru app.
Introducing the practice session:
The practices will be guided through a video. Please follow the instructions to the best of your ability.
In the first part of the video, they will demonstrate and explain how to do the practice; there is no
need to do it at that time, just observe carefully. You will be guided to do the practice together after
the instructions.
***Play video: Introduction to Yoga, Upa yoga, Guided Upa Yoga practice (30 mins or 90 mins)
(“Upa Yoga 30 mins” OR “Upa Yoga 90 mins”)
(Sit by the audio control and watch how the participants are following the instructions. Do not close
your eyes. Do not give any corrections while they are doing the practices. Can assist those who need
support beneath the heels for Yoga Namaskar or encourage them to sit on a chair and do the postures
if unable to squat. If they do not wish to attempt it, it is ok.)
After the practice session:
We hope you enjoyed learning these practices. As Sadhguru mentioned, doing the practices everyday
can bring immense benefit.
You have done well for your first attempt. As you maintain the practice daily, it will get easier and you
will start noticing the difference in your system.
At home, you can access the practices on Sadhguru app on your phone or on Sadhguru’s YouTube
channel. You can do the practices guided, or on your own once you are comfortable with the
instructions.
Upa Yoga is just a drop of what Sadhguru has to offer for one’s transformation and wellbeing.
If you are willing to take the next step and invest more time in your wellbeing, Sadhguru has designed
powerful programs which are offered through Isha Foundation.
(Omit the following if paid program promotion is not allowed.)
The fundamental program is Inner Engineering, a technology for wellbeing derived from the science
of yoga. Designed by Sadhguru, Inner Engineering is a transformative, step by step journey of
self-exploration. It is a comprehensive course for personal growth that empowers you to create your
life the way you want it and come to a state of health, joy and bliss.
Inner Engineering incorporates powerful processes of inner transformation, classical yoga, guided
meditations, access to secrets of ancient wisdom and the transmission of Shambhavi Mahamudra
Kriya, a powerful and purifying energy technique that incorporates the breath along with invigorating
asanas.
Confidential Document, Isha Upa Yoga Presentation Notes - Version 11, Jan 2024
(If you are presenting 90 min Upa Yoga, skip the video. If you are presenting 30 min Upa Yoga then
proceed below and show the video)
We would like to bring a little more understanding of why Inner Engineering in Sadhguru’s own
words.
**Play the video: Inner Engineering - Finding the Source of Your Happiness (5min)
Inner Engineering is offered both online and in person.
“In 7 Steps, Transform Your Life with Sadhguru - Inner Engineering” is a powerful online program,
which can be experienced in your own space, at your own pace. For the first time, it is also available
on mobile devices in addition to laptops, tablets and desktop.
Inner Engineering Total is a 4-day in-person program offered in various cities across North America
and at the Isha Yoga Center in Los Angeles. It is also offered in a residential retreat format at the Isha
Institute of Inner-sciences in Tennessee.
There are no prerequisites to attend the program. Anyone 15 years of age and above can attend. No
previous experience of yoga or physical agility is required.
Isha Foundation also offers classical Hatha Yoga programs, not merely for physical fitness and
strength but most importantly as a holistic process to achieve mastery over the body and mind, and
prepare the body for meditation.
(In case of upcoming IET in local city center, mention the following :)
Locally in-person Inner Engineering Total is coming up on (mention dates at local city).
(Resume from below if the above part was omitted when paid program promotion is not allowed.)
Ishanga Sharing: I took my first program with Isha in (the year).
(Share your experience of the program/practices and how it has impacted your life. Brief sharing of
not more than 1 minute. Mention 1-2 of the most profound changes that have happened for you,
focusing on physiological and psychological benefits, and impact on day to day life, relationships,
etc.).
(After sharing) This is what this program has done for me and the reason why I’m standing here
today.
If you would like to learn more about upcoming programs, we invite you to stay after the session and
we can provide more details and answer any questions you might have.
Volunteers around the world have been offering sessions like these in hospitals, schools, colleges,
corporates and in community centers. If you know of any organizations that could benefit from
similar sessions, or if you would like to bring a session to your workplace or any group you are a part
of, please feel free to reach out to us.
Confidential Document, Isha Upa Yoga Presentation Notes - Version 11, Jan 2024
Before we close this session we would like to invite you to visit the Isha Institute of Inner Sciences
which is located in the spectacular Cumberland plateau in Tennessee as well as the Isha Yoga Center
LA in North Los Angeles (the Valley). Both these centers are established as powerful spaces dedicated
to raising human consciousness. A daily schedule is available for guests to make the most of their
visit.
Please collect the practice handouts as you leave. (Hand out practice sheets.)
Thank you for joining us today.
(Do Namaskar if the audience can understand the gesture, else not necessary.)
(After closing the session, if paid program promotion is not allowed, play the next slide with
“Sadhguru App” with embedded Yoga Padhi. Else, go directly to the last slide which alternates
between “Sadhguru App” and “In 7-steps transform your life with Sadhguru” with embedded Yoga
Padhi.)
Notes to Ishangas:
Session duration: Maintain the session duration for “Yoga for Beginners - 90 mins” module at 1hr 30
mins only and do not extend it any longer.
If you would like to include the “Inner Engineering - Finding the Source of Your Happiness” video, you
can offer “Yoga for Beginners - 30 mins” module and schedule it for an hour.
Upa Yoga can be offered to anyone ages 7+. Children between ages 7 and 18 can accompany their
parents. They need not register. Anyone ages 18+ can register and attend.
In case of late comers who arrive in the middle of a Upa Yoga practice, request them to be seated at
the back and start from the next practice onwards.
Prior to conducting the Isha Upa yoga session, review and make note of local and national Inner
Engineering programs, Hatha Yoga Programs, iii and IYC-LA (ishausa.org/la) center schedules, and
Sadhguru’s U.S. schedule on isha.Sadhguru.org or on InnerEngineering.com/EventFinder (mention
these programs as appropriate). You can keep an announcement paper (with upcoming programs
only, no other session aspects) with you to read from, as a reference.
Important : Before offering a session, please check with the host whether paid program promotion is
allowed. If not allowed, you can omit the parts as mentioned above.
Appropriate Attire: Ishanga to wear business casual, light color clothing. We should not be a
distraction to the participants. Volunteers supporting can wear modest, casual clothing but no cut
offs or denim jeans.
Confidential Document, Isha Upa Yoga Presentation Notes - Version 11, Jan 2024
Photography: No photos of participants during the session. You may take pictures of set up and
volunteers.
Phones: Ishanga and volunteers should not use their phones during the session. Keep it switched off
or in silent or airplane mode.
Space: For Upa Yoga sessions, hall should be cleared for participants to lay their yoga mats, except
for a few chairs along the sides. Participants, Ishanga and volunteers can keep away their shoes along
a wall at the back of the hall. But there is no need to strictly enforce this, as there may be people
who need to keep their shoes on due to medical reasons etc.,
Follow-up
Please ensure that within 2-3 days after offering a “Yoga for Beginners” session:
● Submit a session report using the instructions mentioned in “How to Submit a Free Offerings
Post Session Report.pdf”
● For ongoing support or questions, you may contact your local city coordinator or the national
team by emailing freeofferings@ishausa.org.